Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.
Data structures are essential for managing large amounts of data such us information
kept in databases or index services

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
There are many different type of data structure list,graph,tree,record,(also called a struct
or tuple) map(also called a dictionary) and --Sorting, to sort the items in a required order
most common operation performed on them are
Data insertion; Data update; Data retrieval
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design; Operating System, Database Management System,Statistical analysis package;
Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence, and Simulation
what is an Array?
An array is is dynamically created object that serves as a container to hold constant number
of values of the same type
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Array is a fixed length data structure while ArrayList is a variable length Collection
Class,and you cannot store primitive in ArrayList, it can only contain Objects
what is LinkedList?
LinkedList are linear data Structures where the element are not not stored in contiguous
location and every element is a separate object with a data and address part

How is an Array different from Linked List?
Arrays are index based data structure where each element associated with an index,
LinkedList relies on reference where each note consist of data and references to the
previous and next element
what is queue?
Queue represents a data structure designed to have element inserted at the end of the queue
and removed from the beginning of the queue Fist-in-First-out (FIFO)
what is stack?
Stack is Last-in-First-out (LIFO) data structure it supports two basic operations
Called Push and POP
what is FIFO and LIFO?
Last-in-First-out (Stack) First-in-First-Out(Queue)
what is the order of complexity?
Complexity Measurement the time taking for running an algorithm and it is Commonly used
to count the number of elementary operation performed by the algorithm to improve the
performance
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Best case for simple linear search on list Occurs when the desired element
 is the first element of the list

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
worst case time complexity is O(n)
what is tree in data structure?
it can be defined as a collection of nodes (starting at root node ) where each note is data
structure consisting of a value
what is graph in data structure?
Graph is pictorial representation of a set objects where some pairs of object are connected
by links the interconnected objects are represented by points
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
HashTable allows Null values as key and value whereas HashTable doesn't allow Nulls
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
HashMap is data structure which allow us to store object and retrieve it
in constant timeO(1) provided we know the key
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index
this exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or equal
to the size of the array
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Manually we copy elements one bye one,
Arrays.copyOf()
Object.clone()
What is difference between an array and a linked list?

What is DFS and BFS?
breadth first search (BFS) depth first search (DFS)
What is Recursion?
is a computer programming technique involving the use of a procedure, subroutine,
function,or algorithm
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
a linear data structure are Arrays,stack,Queue, and linkedList, an Array is a collection
of data items having the same data types ,
All the data in non linear data structure can not be traversed in single run
What is Big-(O)-notation?
is a particular tool for assessing algorithm efficiency and is often used to show how
programs need resources relative to their input size
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Bubble Sort Best Q(n),Insertion Sort Q(n), HeapSort Q(n log(n))


Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


